We’ll be able to use the
Lean Startup method by Eric
Rice and the Customer Development
method by Steve Blank.
It always comes from a vision,
an idea.
Every entrepreneur has a vision.
But really, the key, the key to success
is that that idea involves a
series of hypotheses or assumptions.
That is, to turn that idea into a
profitable business model, there
are a number of hypotheses inherent
to that idea.
For example, we want to build an
app where people make reservations
at restaurants, to say something.
Well, because for that idea to
become a profitable business
model are implicit a series
of hypotheses such as that
our customers, users will see
value in the application.
They will use it repeatedly.
They will recommend it to their friends.
They will use it to make
reservations, etc., etc.
There are many possibilities.
It is a matter of decomposing an idea
in numerous hypotheses.
Therefore, as we have to have
very clear that hypotheses, those
assumptions are an absolutely
determining factor.
This is a factor that we need to analyze.
Therefore, the goal, the true
goal of Lean Startup or Customer Development
is to learn as soon as possible
and spend as little money
as possible if of all those
hypotheses, those hypotheses
that we have projected, which
we have assumed, which
of them are madness, we have
been wrong and in which we
are on the right path.
This is the goal and we must do
it as soon as possible and spend
as little as possible.
It is absolutely different from
the traditional methodology
in which you create the product
and until you create the product,
it takes a lot of time, you
develop the whole product and
you have no customer feedback until
you go to the market.
Let’s see how it works.
The first thing we need to do
is to identify these possibilities.
I will summarize that
mainly there are two hypotheses or they
can be grouped into two groups.
The hypotheses related to value,
whether your product generates value
to customers, if they perceive value
and the hypothesis related to
growth, if in addition to generating
value you are able to grow and
capture enough customers to
have a profitable business.
We will see it in more detail.
We’ll do some exercise to learn
to identify hypotheses because
it’s super important.
From these hypotheses, what we have
to do is test them or validate
them and we will do so through
experiments.
That is, we’ll do concrete
experiments to identify
whether that hypothesis is implicit
in your business model,
whether you’re right or not.
We will do so with the least possible
product.
We will also see it in detail.
And how will we do it?
As Steve Blank said, get out of the
building.
You have to leave the office.
You have to interact with customers.
At that point, you can say whether
a hypothesis is valid
or not.
While you are in the office,
you have no proof to do so.
We will therefore do so as soon
as possible.
We need to go out to the market
and interact with customers.
We’ll be very creative, you’ll see.
From those experiments we will
measure the results, we will
get insights, we will get ideas,
we will get conclusions that
will allow us to make decisions
about whether to continue where
we were going because that hypothesis
we have validated that
we were in the right or
change it, pivot, iterate.
This is true of all factors
within the business
model.
We may have been wrong about
what our customer segment
was.
I thought it was a 25-35 year
old, but I didn’t.
The most valuable are those between 35 and
40 years old.
We thought they were in urban areas
and it turns out they are in
rural areas.
We may think that the promotions
would have a lot of impact
and they don’t.
Or that certain functionalities of
our product were not necessary
and are, or vice versa.
We are going to change our
business model and evolve
our business model.
We will do it permanently.
And what we will do is validate
all the hypotheses until we come
up with a business model that
we know we have validated, that
it brings value, that it will grow,
that it is profitable, etc.
As you can see, this methodology, as
we saw in the previous class, is
about looking.
We are really looking to find
a business model that is profitable
and sustainable.
It’s not about executing an idea,
a business plan we had, no.
All the opposite.
It is a very iterative process
in which we will evolve
our business model permanently
until we find it.